Assignments/final-project.md, before:

# Final Project

## Why should I do this?

So far this term, we've completed projects in order to practice skills in isolation. But it's also important to be able to put it all together! This project will give you a chance to practice what we've learned while also creating a portfolio project that you can show off to employers.

## Proposal

Complete your project proposal on [Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com/courses/228465/assignments/1046879/).

## Requirements

Your project should include the following:

- At least 3 models (including `User` model)
- At least 3 forms (including login/signup)
- At least 6 routes (including login/signup)
- Authentication flow
- At least 6 route tests

Your project must also have a coherent theme. Some possible themes include:

- Pokedex app to keep track of Pokemon & Moves
- Songs app to upload Songs & Albums

It is **not** acceptable to simple "re-skin" an existing homework assignment or tutorial for this project. Any such submission will receive a "Needs Improvement" grade. Your code must be original & written by you - although you can borrow ideas & code from your prior work.

If you have an existing front-end that you've created for another class project, you can absolutely turn that into a final project submission. Just take your HTML files and turn each of them into a template, then start filling in the models, routes, etc. You can also opt to "level up" an existing Flask project to incorporate models, forms, auth, & tests.

## Rubric

Your submission will be evaluated according to the following rubric.

| Criteria | Needs Improvement  |  Basic (Passing) | Proficient | Advanced
| --------- | :-------: | :------: | :------: | :------: |
| **Models** | Models are not functional, do not include the necessary fields, or do not contain any relationships. | Models contain at least 1 relationship between them. | Models contain at least 2 relationships (one-to-many and many-to-many)aq. | Models contain several relationships & demonstrate an advanced understanding. |
| **Forms** | Forms are not functional, or do not contain necessary fields. | Each form is functional and contains the appropriate fields. | Forms contain a variety of input types (text, numbers, etc) and include appropriate validation. | Forms contain a wide variety of inputs (e.g. file uploads) that demonstrate an advanced understanding. |
| **Routes** | Several routes are missing or not functional. | Routes contain basic functionality such as displaying data. | Routes perform operations such as creating new models, updating models, etc and contain basic error checking. | Routes perform advanced operations such as making API calls, advanced error checking, etc. |
| **Templates** | Templates are incomplete or only display static data. | Templates are functional and display data from the database models. | Templates make use of loops, if statements, etc to display appropriate data. | Templates make use of partials, filters, or other advanced concepts. |
| **Authentication** | One or more auth routes (login, signup, or logout) is not functional. | Auth routes are functional and log the user in. | Auth routes contain error checking. | - |
| **Code Quality** | Code is messy and hard to follow. Variables/functions are inappropriately named. | Code contains appropriate variable/function names, and follows good Python conventions. | Code is clear and easy to follow, and includes docstrings & comments. | Code is extensible and may utilize helper functions, classes, or advanced data structures to aid in readability. |

Your project will receive a passing grade if you score an average of at least 2 ("Basic") across all rubric items.

## Submission

Please submit your work using [Gradescope](https://gradescope.com).

Commit message:

add instructions for final project

Assignments/final-project.md, after:

# Final Project

## Why should I do this?

So far this term, we've completed projects in order to practice skills in isolation. But it's also important to be able to put it all together! This project will give you a chance to practice what we've learned while also creating a portfolio project that you can show off to employers.

## Proposal

Complete your project proposal on [Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com/courses/228465/assignments/1046879/).

## Requirements

Your project should include the following:

- At least 3 models (including `User` model)
- At least 3 forms (including login/signup)
- At least 6 routes (including login/signup)
- Authentication flow
- At least 6 route tests

Your project must also have a coherent theme. Some possible themes include:

- Pokedex app to keep track of Pokemon & Moves
- Songs app to upload Songs & Albums

It is **not** acceptable to simple "re-skin" an existing homework assignment or tutorial for this project. Any such submission will receive a "Needs Improvement" grade. Your code must be original & written by you - although you can borrow ideas & code from your prior work.

If you have an existing front-end that you've created for another class project, you can absolutely turn that into a final project submission. Just take your HTML files and turn each of them into a template, then start filling in the models, routes, etc. You can also opt to "level up" an existing Flask project to incorporate models, forms, auth, & tests.

## Rubric

Your submission will be evaluated according to the following rubric.

| Criteria | Needs Improvement  |  Basic (Passing) | Proficient | Advanced
| --------- | :-------: | :------: | :------: | :------: |
| **Models** | Models are not functional, do not include the necessary fields, or do not contain any relationships. | Models contain at least 1 relationship between them. | Models contain at least 2 relationships (one-to-many and many-to-many)aq. | Models contain several relationships & demonstrate an advanced understanding. |
| **Forms** | Forms are not functional, or do not contain necessary fields. | Each form is functional and contains the appropriate fields. | Forms contain a variety of input types (text, numbers, etc) and include appropriate validation. | Forms contain a wide variety of inputs (e.g. file uploads) that demonstrate an advanced understanding. |
| **Routes** | Several routes are missing or not functional. | Routes contain basic functionality such as displaying data. | Routes perform operations such as creating new models, updating models, etc and contain basic error checking. | Routes perform advanced operations such as making API calls, advanced error checking, etc. |
| **Templates** | Templates are incomplete or only display static data. | Templates are functional and display data from the database models. | Templates make use of loops, if statements, etc to display appropriate data. | Templates make use of partials, filters, or other advanced concepts. |
| **Authentication** | One or more auth routes (login, signup, or logout) is not functional. | Auth routes are functional and log the user in. | Auth routes contain error checking. | - |
| **Code Quality** | Code is messy and hard to follow. Variables/functions are inappropriately named. | Code contains appropriate variable/function names, and follows good Python conventions. | Code is clear and easy to follow, and includes docstrings & comments. | Code is extensible and may utilize helper functions, classes, or advanced data structures to aid in readability. |

Your project will receive a passing grade if you score an average of at least 2 ("Basic") across all rubric items.

## Video Demo

When you're finished implementing your project, you will need to submit a ~3 minute video demonstrating your working project and explaining your code. You can use the [QuickTime program](https://support.apple.com/guide/quicktime-player/welcome/mac) to record a screenshare to submit for this.

## Submission

Please submit your work using [Gradescope](https://gradescope.com).
